>> Brian Holt: It's kind of robust to have
to repeat writings create element over and
over and over again.
There's a couple of ways to do this so
first of all a bunch of people who write
react don't even know
what create element is.
Reason being is that they never have to
write it because we're gonna get to write
it in jsx in may be like an hour.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so they don't
ever have to write createElement.
JSX transpiles to createElement calls, but
I do know some crazy people that
have chosen not to write JSX.
And it is possible to write huge
apps without using any JSX.
So I'm gonna show you just a couple tricks
of how to do that a little bit easier.
So you can say con C E
equals reacts.create
element,
>> Brian Holt: And
then now i can replace all
these create elements.
So I'm just going to do, find,
react.create element and replace that with
CE and we'll just say replace all, and
I gotta do that again, createElement.
>> Brian Holt: And
it gets a little bit easier to,
or it's a little less
dense, right?
You don't need all those
react.createElements every single time.
There's also a package
called create factory
that helps as well and
there's also react dom-helpers.
Which I'm not gonna show you how
to do today because it's kind of
the old way of doing it and once we
get to JSX it's not helpful anyway,
but you can do things like divm and h1.
So you can actually call them
by the name of the function.
Then you get rid of this.
It looks something like that.
Again, getting less and
less dense, but you have to go get
some helper libraries to do that.
And we're not gonna do that today.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So now that we've
done that, let's go ahead and
talk about props and attributes.
So so far, not super useful, right?
Because we're just rendering out my
second component a bunch of times,
not entirely exciting.
So let's go make this a little
bit more interesting.
We can actually pass properties from
MyFirstComponent into my titles,
so let's try doing that real quick.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna pass,
we call it the title.
We're gonna put some of our favorite T.V.
shows in here, so let's put Game
of Thrones, that's a good one.
Stranger things.
It's a good tv show.
>> Speaker 2: Rick and Morty.
>> Brian Holt: Rick and
Morty, that's a good one,
and Silicon Valley.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
now inside of my tile,
the first thing that's gonna be passed
into it is a thing called props.
And props is just going to be
whatever you passed in right here.
So instead of saying my component
right here, I can say props.title.
>> Brian Holt: So now if we save this.
>> Brian Holt: And come back over here.
Notice that now we have multiple different
kinds of titles, which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: So we're getting more
reusable, right, more flexible.
We can pass different properties into
components and kind of mold them.
Right now we're just changing the textbook
into all sorts of things, right, but
sometimes I could be, like,
show this particular theme for
this widget or I don't know.
If a user logs in, show this.
If the user logout, show that.
>> Speaker 3: Just to clarify, props is
just like a syntax that most people use or
do people call the-
>> Brian Holt: Would you call this
anything other than props?
Never.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: You would never
call it anything other than props.
I've never seen it called
anything other than props.
So it is convention.
You could call it something else, don't.
>> Speaker 3: Don't.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH]
So let's take this even a step further.
And we wanna change the color of
whatever is being passed in here.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna pass
something else into all of these.
>> Brian Holt: So, one of my favorite
interview questions to ask people is
always, what's your
favorite CSS named color.
I have a couple new ones.
So there's yellow green
which is my favorite.
My second favorite is green yellow and
lime green and
then just lime,
which are also different colors.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
still my favorite is Peru.
[LAUGH]
You really just can't beat Peru,
which is a color.
>> Speaker 4: You know,
Papaya Whip is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: Papaya Whip's pretty good.
What else?
I don't know, medium aquamarine,
that's another really good one.
So what we're gonna do here is we're gonna
pass that color to be the color of the h1,
right?
So instead of being null here,
we're gonna pass it an object, and
we're gonna give it a style attribute.
It's not a typical style string
that you'd put into the,
like, on to the actual dom, right?
It's actually gonna be an object,
which is a little bit easier to work with.
So we're gonna do color, and
it's gonna be props.color.
>> Brian Holt: Right, and
as long as this is called the same thing,
it can be anything, right?
So if I change this to be like,
I don't know,
the Canadian way, or British way, or both.
But anyway, so now if we save that and
come back over here,
notice that we have various
shades of green and Peru.
If you did not know,
that is the color of Peru.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, any questions so far?
>> Speaker 3: So for the style,
you could pass in a string, but
that's just cumbersome,
so we don't do that?
>> Brian Holt: I don't
think it actually works.
So, really what's happening
underneath the hood
is this is actually interacting with
the JavaScript API for DOM elements, and
this is the way you actually interact
with the style API with the DOM API.
>> Speaker 5: I have a question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> Speaker 5: Do any authors
ever avoid using props and
instead pass individual
arguments to the constructor for
a little bit better self
documenting components?
Cuz myTitle could accept a color and
a title as arguments, and
that would be a little bit more obvious
than just a property bag coming in.
>> Brian Holt: The answer
to that question is no,
you do have to do it this way, because
React is actually hooking in to those,
and it'll know when to re-render,
based on what you passed into it.
Now you can get around that by,
which I'll show you later today,
with Flow,
cuz then Flow will start warning you.
So typing your reaction components,
actually it helps a ton.
There's also something called prop types,
which again,
we will also talk about them, and
flow is gonna be a static type checker.
So it's gonna tell you at compile time,
whereas prop types is gonna tell you
at run time, like hey, this is missing.
So it is a problem, but
there's tooling to get around it.
That's a good question.
>> Speaker 4: Carrie's asking
what about attributes.
>> Brian Holt: Like what
kind of attributes?
>> Speaker 4: I think it's the same thing,
props and attributes are synonymous.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah like
in this particular case for
React we call them profs but
they are like attributes as well.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah attributes in HTML.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: So this is really it for
React at its most basic level right?
Just passing props down
into other components.
We're gonna get here to state momentarily.
>> Speaker 5: One other question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, sure.
>> Speaker 5: Just for
a little bit clarification on that
second argument which is null.
Those are HTML attributes?
>> Brian Holt: So for this particular one,
for the H ones and the div's, this is
actually going to be the attributes
I'm going to put onto the dom, right?
But for something like my title,
this isn't something that actually gets
rendered directly to the dom, like,
there's not a my title tag, right?
So this is what's passed into
the component here as props.
>> Speaker 5: Okay, so
is ID my first component?
Is ID recognized as the special property
that gets tagged on to HTML or?
>> Brian Holt: It's React naively
passes that just to the dom, right?
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So for
example if this was React native,
it would be a totally different
set of attributes right?
Does that make sense?
Cool, so again if you have something
like Flow, Flow will check that for
you to make sure it's like hey, you try
to pass IDD, and that's not a thing,
so that's a failure, right?
But we're not using
anything like that yet.
So don't mess it up.
That's the big key here,
is to just not mess up anything.
Good question.
Other questions?
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: Just about the color and
the colors.
Where is that coming from?
>> Brian Holt: These particular colors?
>> Speaker 6: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: These are all native
colors, right?
So I can totally call this,
>> Speaker 6: Yeah, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
that will totally work.
>> Brian Holt: So this is it for
writing React without JSX.
[COUGH] We're gonna start getting
a little bit more complicated,
and so, we're gonna start adopting some
tooling to kind of help us along here.